I know we talked about it, but I really
wanna hammer this home, which is that,
let's say you wanna unit test a class,
right?
So you have your test driver,
which is your it method.
And you have the class under test or
a function under test,
it doesn't matter what it is, right?
You have something that you wanna test.
And so you say, well,
that's pretty simple, I have my test,
I will go and poke at the class
under test, and things work.
Except that there
are other classes involved.
In our case, the fetch, the delay, right?
Those were other externalities, right?
And the thing is,
it's not just those externalities,
those externalities have
a bunch of other externalities.
And so very quickly,
you get in a situation where you just
end up depending on the whole world.
And so what you wanna do is
you wanna make a seam, right?
You wanna have some mechanism by which I
can give you the external dependencies so
that I can turn them into mocks, right?
And so what you do is you convert this
into this, into what we called friendlies.
The reason I call them friendlies
is because I showed you how to
do it with mocks, but oftentimes,
people actually create a simplified
implementation of the real thing, right?
So mocks are one way to do it, and
they're pretty straightforward,
but you could also create your
own implementation for it.
For example, you can create my own fetch
that knows how to respond to different
things and it's pre-configured with
standard responses and response with
the headers and error codes and all kinds
of other things in there as well, right?
You could do that, and
then you have a useful thing to
just use all over the place.
So these friendlies don't
necessarily have to be mocks,
they could just be
something that you control.
And because you control it, the class
under test gets sandwiched between both
sides of the world that you control.
And by sandwiching the unit test
in the middle, you then can go and
basically control time,
control the order in which things resolve.
Create all weird corner cases or
race conditions or
anything you want can be done
in this particular manner.
Normally when we write code what we mix is
we mix the object graph construction and
lookup with business logic.
And the thing you need to do
is you need to figure out
a way to break them apart, right?
So in our case,
we did something very, very simple,
where we just broke them apart by
having default arguments to our class.
But you can imagine something more
complicated where you have some factory
class that actually makes it for you.
But the point here is that by breaking
these two responsibilities up,
you now have the freedom to test things or
to move things around or
to do things that you didn't have before.
So yeah, in essence, what you want
is you wanna have a test driver and
you wanna create the friendlies
inside of your test and
then pass them through somehow
to the other side, right?
In our case, we had a BeforeEach method
that would set up our friendlies,
right, our mocks, and pass them to
the other side so that we can use it.